# ShabdNidhi

ShabdNidhi is a Python Dictionary Tool, a console-based application that allows
you to create, manage, and search for word-meaning pairs in a text file.
This tool is designed to be easy to use and provides the following
features:

\- Create a dictionary file. - Add word-meaning pairs to the
dictionary. - Search for the meaning of a word. - Remove word-meaning
pairs from the dictionary. - Quit the application.

\## Getting Started

To get started with the Python Dictionary Tool, follow these steps:

1\. Clone this repository to your local machine or download the
\`dictionary_tool.py\` file.

2\. Ensure you have Python installed on your computer. This tool was
developed using Python 3, so make sure you have at least Python 3.6
installed.

3\. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory
where the \`dictionary_tool.py\` file is located.

4\. Run the tool by executing the following command:

\## Usage

The Dictionary Tool provides a menu-driven interface for performing
various operations on your dictionary. You can choose from the following
options:

\### Options

1\. \*\*Create Dictionary\*\*: Initializes a new dictionary file
(\`dictionary.txt\`) if it does not already exist.

2\. \*\*Add Word-Meaning Pair\*\*: Allows you to add a word and its
corresponding meaning to the dictionary file.

3\. \*\*Search Word Meaning\*\*: Enables you to search for the meaning
of a word in the dictionary.

4\. \*\*Remove Word-Meaning Pair\*\*: Lets you remove a word and its
meaning from the dictionary.

5\. \*\*Quit\*\*: Exits the Dictionary Tool.

\## Example Usage

Here are some examples of how to use the Python Dictionary Tool:

\### Creating a Dictionary

When you run the tool for the first time, choose option 1 to create a
new dictionary file (\`dictionary.txt\`) in the current directory. You
only need to do this once.

\### Adding Word-Meaning Pairs

Choose option 2 to add a word and its meaning to the dictionary. Follow
the prompts to enter the word and its meaning.

\### Searching for Word Meaning

Choose option 3 to search for the meaning of a word. Enter the word you
want to search for, and the tool will display the meaning if it exists
in the dictionary.

\### Removing Word-Meaning Pairs

Choose option 4 to remove a word and its meaning from the dictionary.
Enter the word you want to remove, and the tool will delete it from the
dictionary if it exists.

\### Quitting the Tool

Choose option 5 to exit the Dictionary Tool.

Enjoy using the Python Dictionary Tool! \
